# TemperatureTextProject
Python program on my Raspberry Pi that texts my phone the current temperature every morning.

I created this project because the temperature on my phone would take forever to refresh. The refresh wheel would just keep spinning until either it refreshed or I gave up and didn't care what the temperature was. I had heard about web scraping with Python, but had never used it. I also learned that you could send text messages with a Python program using a website called Twilio. I decided to put these two things together to make my program.

The first thing I did was learn how to send text messages to my phone with Twilio. You'll need to install the helper library using the command 'pip install twilio'. Twilio has a lot of examples for different projects so I was able to find the code and modify it so that it worked for me. This code can be found in the text file 'message.txt'.

The second thing I did was learn how to web scrape with Python. Web scraping basically just takes information or data from a website. I used this to grab the current temperature from the weather channel's website. To web scrape, you'll need to install a helper library called Beautiful Soup used for web scraping. You can install this using the command 'pip install beautifulsoup4'. I found an example of code that I used to get an idea of how to use web scraping. This code can be found in the text file 'webscrape.txt'.

The third step in this project was to put together what I had learned and create a program that would text me the current temperature for my location. There are comments in the code that help to explain what each section of code does. I first imported all the libraries that I would need. I then set up the messaging with my Twilio account to send texts. The third thing I did was grab the HTML from the url I provided. After that, I found where the current temperature was in the HTML, converted it to a string, and stored it in a variable called p. I couldn't find a way to get rid of the HTML garbage around the temperature, so I just stored the stuff to the left of the temperature in a variable called bad1 and then the stuff to the right in bad2. With these two variables, I cut them out of the string and reassigned the new string back to p. The final part of the code was sending the text message to the phone. NOTE: The phone numbers of the sender and recipient need to have +1 before the number. For example, to = "+15555555555" would send it to 555-555-5555. This code can be found in the text file 'temperature.txt'.

The final thing I had to do was get it so that it would automatically text me at a certain time. My original idea was to just put the whole program in a while loop that would check  
